
##Privacy considerations

Data minimization is an essential concept in trust frameworks and federations exchanging End-User identity information for government applications.
The design of this profile takes into consideration mechanisms to protect the End-User's government identity information and activity from unintentional exposure.

Pairwise Subject identifiers MUST be supported by the OpenID Providers for frameworks where subjects should not be traceable or linkable across Clients by their Subject ID. This prevents situations where an End-User may inadvertently be assigned a universal government identifier.

Request Claims using the `claim` parameter MUST be supported by OpenID Providers to ensure that only the data the Client explicitly requests is provided in the UserInfo response or ID Token.
This prevents situations where a Client may only require a partial set of Claims, but receives (and is therefore exposed to) a full set of Claims. For example, if a Client only needs an identifier and the persons legal age, the OpenID Provider MUST NOT send the Client the full user name and birth date.
Similarly, broad attribute requests through the `scope` parameter, such as `profile` SHOULD NOT be used.

All Clients MUST apply the concept of data minimization. As a result, a Client MUST NOT request any more identifiers, attributes or other Claims than strictly necessary.
Additionally, Clients SHOULD ensure they minimize the scope and audience they request, use and forward. This principle applies to both to usage at the Client as well as forwarded Access Tokens in a Service Intermediation scenario.
Token Exchange [[RFC8693]] SHOULD be used to request Access Tokens with a minimal scope and audience.

> Note that per-instance registration of Native Clients can increase the risk of Client -- and thus End-User -- observability and traceability. This because the `client_id` is unique, can be linked to an individual and may be observed. The `client_id` SHOULD be considered and treated as sensitive data in case per-instance registration is applied.
Although the `client_id` will be protected by TLS, it may be exposed at the Client itself or the OpenID Provider or elsewhere. As mitigating measure, implementations MAY use encrypted request objects and tokens.
OpenID Providers SHOULD assign unpredictable Client Identifiers in case of per-instance registration for Native Clients, in order to mitigate guessing and (cross Client and cross audience) linkability of Client Identifiers.

In order to provide end-to-end security and privacy, identifiers and attributes SHOULD be encrypted from the providing source to the ultimate intended recipient. This can be accomplished by either encrypting entire response messages and tokens or by using aggregated or distributed Claims (see Section 5.6.2 of [[OpenID.Core]]). Applying end-to-end encryption is strongly RECOMMENDED for both the BSN (_Burgerservicenummer_, the Dutch citizen ID) and sensitive attributes.

Despite the mechanisms enforced by this profile, the operational circumstances may allow these controls to be relaxed in a specific context.
For example, if a bilateral agreement between two agencies legally entitles usage of citizen identifiers, then the Pairwise Pseudonymous Identifier requirement may be relaxed. In cases where all Clients are entitled to process Claims associated to a subject at an OpenID Provider, the Claims request requirement may be relaxed.

The reasons for relaxing the controls that support data minimization are outside the scope of this profile.
