#Use Case & context

This profile supports several Use Cases or partial aspects thereof. Design choices within this profile have been made with these Use Cases under consideration.

The generic Use Case is an End-User with the intention to consume an online service of a Service Provider. As the service requires authentication, this triggers the authentication process.

Authentication is provided in a federated manner. In other words, a Client system is relying upon another system, the OpenID Provider, for authentication.
Either a shared central OpenID Provider or a (distributed) network of OpenID Providers, a.k.a. a federation or scheme is being used. The ecosystem supported by the OpenID Provider can either be a single organization (intra-organizational) or multiple organizations (inter-organizational), through either bilateral or multilateral agreements.
In case a federation or scheme is being used, an Identity Broker may be applicable. Although this profile allows for usage in a federation, no explicit support for federations is _currently_ included.

The service is offered by a (semi-)governmental or public Service Provider. The Use Cases therefore explicitly covers Citizen-to-Government as well as Business-to-Government contexts. Note that business-to-government is not strictly limited to businesses, these may be other governmental organisations (inter-organizational) or internal service consumers (intra-organisational). This profile is not limited to these contexts, nor intended to exclude Business-to-Consumer and Business-to-Business contexts, but additional considerations may be applicable in those contexts.

The Service Provider or OpenID Client requests either an identifier, attributes or both of an authenticated End-User from the OpenID Provider. As target End-User audiences are diverse, multiple types of identifiers can be supported. Supported Use Cases therefore span both identifiale and attribute-based authentication.

From an architectual standpoint, the Use Case can utilize a Client in the form of a hosted web-application, a mobile/native application or a browser based single-page-application (SPA). See [Section 4.1 Client Types](#client-types) for more details.
